README.adoc, before:

= C++ example project scanned on SonarCloud using GitHub Actions
// URIs:
:uri-qg-status: https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=sonarsource-cfamily-examples_macos-cmake-gh-actions-sc
:img-qg-status: https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=sonarsource-cfamily-examples_macos-cmake-gh-actions-sc&metric=alert_status
:uri-build-status: https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/macos-cmake-gh-actions-sc/actions/workflows/build.yml
:img-build-status: https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/macos-cmake-gh-actions-sc/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg

image:{img-build-status}[Build Status, link={uri-build-status}]
image:{img-qg-status}[Quality Gate Status,link={uri-qg-status}]

*This project is analysed on https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=sonarsource-cfamily-examples_macos-cmake-gh-actions-sc[SonarCloud]!*

:note-caption: :information_source:
NOTE: This simple example ignores https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#analysis-cache[analysis cache] and https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#parallel-code-scan[multithreaded execution] both of which can boost analysis significantly.

It is very easy to analyze a C, C++ and Objective-C project with SonarCloud and https://docs.sonarcloud.io/getting-started/github/[GitHub Actions]:

. Create a `sonar-project.properties` file to store your configuration
. In your `.github/workflows/build.yml` file:
.. Download the https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/ci-based-analysis/sonarscanner-cli/[Sonar Scanner]
.. Download the https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#analysis-steps-using-build-wrapper[Build Wrapper]
.. Wrap your compilation with the Build Wrapper
.. Run `sonar-scanner` as the final step
. Ensure that your token is stored as a secret in your repository (`SONARCLOUD_TOKEN` in this example project). You can request new tokens using https://sonarcloud.io/account/security/[Account/Security page].

You can take a look at the link:sonar-project.properties[sonar-project.properties] and link:.github/workflows/build.yml[build.yml] to see it in practice.

= Documentation

- https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/[Documentation of the C, C++ and Objective-C plugin and its Build Wrapper]
- https://docs.sonarcloud.io/getting-started/github/[Documentation of using SonarCloud with GitHub]
- https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#analysis-cache[Configuring C, C++ and Objective-C analysis cache]
- https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#parallel-code-scan[Configuring multithreaded execution]
- https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#analysis-steps-using-compilation-database[Using compilation database (compile_commands.json)]

= MacOS\CMake

A build of the https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/code[code repository] on a MacOS platform using CMake build system.

To build the code run:
----
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
----

= Code Description

An example of a flawed C++ code. The https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/code[code repository] is meant to be compiled with different build systems using different CI pipelines on Linux, MacOS, and Windows.

The https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/code[code repository] is forked into other repositories in https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples[this collection] to add a specific build system, platform, and CI.
The downstream repositories are analyzed either with https://www.sonarqube.org/[SonarQube] or https://sonarcloud.io/[SonarCloud].

You can find examples for:

* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=linux[Linux]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=macos[MacOS]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=windows[Windows]

Using the following build systems:

* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=cmake[CMake]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=autotools[GNU Autotools]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=xcode[Xcode]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=msbuild[MSBuild]

Running on the following CI services:

* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=azure[Azure DevOps]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=gh-actions[GitHub Actions]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=travis[Travis]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=jenkins[Jenkins]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=gitlab[GitLab CI]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=bitbucket[BitBucket Pipelines]
* Additionally, https://github.com/orgs/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/repositories?q=otherci[generic examples] demonstrate integration with other CIs and https://github.com/orgs/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/repositories?q=manual[manual-configuration examples] should help you if you are running locally.

Configured for analysis on:

* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=-sq[SonarQube]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=-sc[SonarCloud]

You can find also a few examples demonstrating:

* https://github.com/orgs/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/repositories?q=compdb[The use of Compilation Database (compile_commands.json)]
* https://github.com/orgs/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/repositories?q=topic%3Acoverage[Test coverage]


See link:./examples-structure.adoc[examples-structure.adoc] for a description of the structure of https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples[this GitHub organization] and the relations between its different repositories.

Commit message:

SC-6034 Use github action master

README.adoc, after:

= C++ example project scanned on SonarCloud using GitHub Actions
// URIs:
:uri-qg-status: https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=sonarsource-cfamily-examples_macos-cmake-gh-actions-sc
:img-qg-status: https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=sonarsource-cfamily-examples_macos-cmake-gh-actions-sc&metric=alert_status
:uri-build-status: https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/macos-cmake-gh-actions-sc/actions/workflows/build.yml
:img-build-status: https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/macos-cmake-gh-actions-sc/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg

image:{img-build-status}[Build Status, link={uri-build-status}]
image:{img-qg-status}[Quality Gate Status,link={uri-qg-status}]

*This project is analysed on https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=sonarsource-cfamily-examples_macos-cmake-gh-actions-sc[SonarCloud]!*

:note-caption: :information_source:
NOTE: This simple example ignores https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#analysis-cache[analysis cache] and https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#parallel-code-scan[multithreaded execution] both of which can boost analysis significantly.

It is very easy to analyze a C, C++ and Objective-C project with SonarCloud and https://docs.sonarcloud.io/getting-started/github/[GitHub Actions]:

. Create a `sonar-project.properties` file to store your configuration
. In your `.github/workflows/build.yml` file:
.. Download the Sonar Scanner and Build Wrapper using https://github.com/SonarSource/sonarcloud-github-c-cpp-addition[SonarCloud C/C++ Github Action]:
.. Wrap your compilation with the Build Wrapper
.. Run `sonar-scanner` as the final step
. Ensure that your token is stored as a secret in your repository (`SONARCLOUD_TOKEN` in this example project). You can request new tokens using https://sonarcloud.io/account/security/[Account/Security page].

You can take a look at the link:sonar-project.properties[sonar-project.properties] and link:.github/workflows/build.yml[build.yml] to see it in practice.

= Documentation

- https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/[Documentation of the C, C++ and Objective-C plugin and its Build Wrapper]
- https://docs.sonarcloud.io/getting-started/github/[Documentation of using SonarCloud with GitHub]
- https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#analysis-cache[Configuring C, C++ and Objective-C analysis cache]
- https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#parallel-code-scan[Configuring multithreaded execution]
- https://docs.sonarcloud.io/advanced-setup/languages/c-c-objective-c/#analysis-steps-using-compilation-database[Using compilation database (compile_commands.json)]

= MacOS\CMake

A build of the https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/code[code repository] on a MacOS platform using CMake build system.

To build the code run:
----
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
----

= Code Description

An example of a flawed C++ code. The https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/code[code repository] is meant to be compiled with different build systems using different CI pipelines on Linux, MacOS, and Windows.

The https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/code[code repository] is forked into other repositories in https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples[this collection] to add a specific build system, platform, and CI.
The downstream repositories are analyzed either with https://www.sonarqube.org/[SonarQube] or https://sonarcloud.io/[SonarCloud].

You can find examples for:

* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=linux[Linux]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=macos[MacOS]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=windows[Windows]

Using the following build systems:

* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=cmake[CMake]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=autotools[GNU Autotools]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=xcode[Xcode]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=msbuild[MSBuild]

Running on the following CI services:

* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=azure[Azure DevOps]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=gh-actions[GitHub Actions]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=travis[Travis]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=jenkins[Jenkins]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=gitlab[GitLab CI]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=bitbucket[BitBucket Pipelines]
* Additionally, https://github.com/orgs/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/repositories?q=otherci[generic examples] demonstrate integration with other CIs and https://github.com/orgs/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/repositories?q=manual[manual-configuration examples] should help you if you are running locally.

Configured for analysis on:

* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=-sq[SonarQube]
* https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples?q=-sc[SonarCloud]

You can find also a few examples demonstrating:

* https://github.com/orgs/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/repositories?q=compdb[The use of Compilation Database (compile_commands.json)]
* https://github.com/orgs/sonarsource-cfamily-examples/repositories?q=topic%3Acoverage[Test coverage]


See link:./examples-structure.adoc[examples-structure.adoc] for a description of the structure of https://github.com/sonarsource-cfamily-examples[this GitHub organization] and the relations between its different repositories.
